023-pushing-to-multiple-remotes.md, before:

Title: Pushing to multiple git repositories
Tags: git
Blurb: Avoiding single point of failure when pushing git to a single repo (github) by sending to multiple remotes at once.

git is a distributed version control. Distributed. While you can have a single `master` remote it can be very handy to push changes to several remotes while onyl pulling from one. Here is how I do it.

## Open up the `.git/config` file in your repository

Inside this there are several sections that are of interest. The following is a bog standard file for a newly `initialise`'d repository.

```config
[core]
	repositoryformatversion = 0
	filemode = true
	bare = false
	logallrefupdates = true
```

Great stuff.

Now lets add a remote to push changes to:

`git remote add github git@github.com:dougmiller/theMetaCityArticles.git`

which now gives us

```config
[core]
	repositoryformatversion = 0
	filemode = true
	bare = false
	logallrefupdates = true
[remote "github"]
	url = git@github.com:dougmiller/theMetaCityArticles.git
	fetch = +refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/github/*
```

We can of course add as many of these as we like

`git add remote tmc doug@themetacity.com:theMetaCityArticles.git`

which unsurprisingly add a second remote

```config
[core]
	repositoryformatversion = 0
	filemode = true
	bare = false
	logallrefupdates = true
[remote "github"]
	url = git@github.com:dougmiller/theMetaCityArticles.git
	fetch = +refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/github/*
[remote "tmc"]
	url = doug@themetacity.com:theMetaCityArticles.git
	fetch = +refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/tmc/*
```

And see what git thinks about where it can push and pull to: `git remote -v`

```
github	git@github.com:dougmiller/theMetaCityArticles.git (fetch)
github	git@github.com:dougmiller/theMetaCityArticles.git (push)
tmc	doug@themetacity.com:theMetaCityArticles.git (fetch)
tmc	doug@themetacity.com:theMetaCityArticles.git (push)
```

## You have `commit`'d
After doing a commit, to get the changes to each remote you could do:

`git push github master && git push tmc master`

This will get the data to both remotes but is a bit clunky. A cleaner solution can be to edit a remote in the config to have two push locations.

Commit message:

Finished off the git multi repos which was not finished for some reaon but still was published

023-pushing-to-multiple-remotes.md, after:

Title: Pushing to multiple git repositories
Tags: git
Blurb: Avoiding single point of failure when pushing git to a single repo (github) by sending to multiple remotes at once.

git is a distributed version control. Distributed. While you can have a single `master` remote it can be very handy to push changes to several remotes while onyl pulling from one. Here is how I do it.

Open up the `.git/config` file in your repository

Inside this there are several sections that are of interest. The following is a bog standard file for a newly `initialise`'d repository.

```config
[core]
	repositoryformatversion = 0
	filemode = true
	bare = false
	logallrefupdates = true
```

Great stuff.

Now lets add a remote to push changes to:

`git remote add github git@github.com:dougmiller/theMetaCityArticles.git`

which now gives us

```config
[core]
	repositoryformatversion = 0
	filemode = true
	bare = false
	logallrefupdates = true
[remote "github"]
	url = git@github.com:dougmiller/theMetaCityArticles.git
	fetch = +refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/github/*
```

We can of course add as many of these as we like

`git add remote tmc doug@themetacity.com:theMetaCityArticles.git`

which unsurprisingly adds a second remote

```config
[core]
	repositoryformatversion = 0
	filemode = true
	bare = false
	logallrefupdates = true
[remote "github"]
	url = git@github.com:dougmiller/theMetaCityArticles.git
	fetch = +refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/github/*
[remote "tmc"]
	url = doug@themetacity.com:theMetaCityArticles.git
	fetch = +refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/tmc/*
```

And see what git thinks about where it can push and pull to: `git remote -v`

```
github	git@github.com:dougmiller/theMetaCityArticles.git (fetch)
github	git@github.com:dougmiller/theMetaCityArticles.git (push)
tmc	doug@themetacity.com:theMetaCityArticles.git (fetch)
tmc	doug@themetacity.com:theMetaCityArticles.git (push)
```

## You have `commit`'d
After doing a commit, to get the changes to each remote you could do:

`git push github master && git push tmc master`

This will get the data to both remotes but is a bit clunky. A cleaner solution can be to edit a remote in the config to have two push locations.

```config
[core]
	repositoryformatversion = 0
	filemode = true
	bare = false
	logallrefupdates = true
[remote "tmc"]
	url = doug@themetacity.com:theMetaCityArticles.git
	fetch = +refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/tmc/*
	pushurl = doug@themetacity.com:theMetaCityArticles.git
	pushurl = git@github.com:dougmiller/theMetaCityArticles.git
```

`git remote -v` again to see out changes.

```
origin	doug@themetacity.com:theMetaCityArticles.git (fetch)
origin	doug@themetacity.com:theMetaCityArticles.git (push)
origin	git@github.com:dougmiller/theMetaCityArticles.git (push)
```

The `(fetch)` line is taken from the `url` setting while the two `(push)` lines are from the `pushurl` line. The astute amongst you will notice that the `(fetch)` line does not have to match any of the push urls (in effect: A does some work -> B pull in changes then pushes -> C & D). In the case of working on theMetaCity articles, the github repo is a public read only version used to gather feedback if people are interested.

Once you do a `push`, it works through the `pushurl`s in order, trying to send the changes and moving onto the next in the list on success or failure.
